To Do:
Incorporate findings from papers below
Double check figure w easton
Put into thesis (add Westerman Benbow paper to Zotero)
See life expectancy bookmarks to calc that


INTRO
Currently, the octopus fishery in this region of madagascar is closed for the three months between June and August on a yearly basis (Benbow and Harris 2011, Westerman and Benbow 2014) which was decided in 2011. However, there has been no study to assess how this is effecting *Octoups cyanea* stocks in the areas since.

METHODS
We also modeled how this fishery would act under the three month closure that is currently instituted in Madagascar. We simulated this scenario by increasing the survivability of the matrix by 1% increments and then multiplying this new matrix during the first three months of the year. After the closure, the orginial matrix was multiplied and the overall growth rate was calculated. This allowed us to analyze how much of a survivability increase would be necessary in these closures to result in a growing population of *Octopus cyanea*. 

RESULTS
By analyzing the 3 month closure scenario, we found that these fishing restrictions must increase the survivability of the population by at least 7.4% in order to result in population growth.

DISCUSSION
Three month closures began to be implemented in the region in 2011 as this length of time was shown to improve octopus yeild and had limited negative effects on fisher income (Benbow and Harris 2011). As we don't have a current assessment of *Octopus cyanea* stocks in this fishery, this indicates a need to assess how effective these closures are in preserving the blue octopus of this region.

FIND BACKGROUND ON 3 MO CLOSURES
CLOSURES JUNE THROUGH AUGUST
See: The Role of Women in Community-based Small-Scale
Fisheries Management: The Case of the South West
Madagascar Octopus Fishery
Kame Westerman and Sophie Benbow - SEE PAGE 121

Sophie Benbow, Alasdair Harris
Managing Madagascar’s octopus
fisheries. Proceedings of the
workshop on Octopus cyanea
fisheries, 5-6 April 2011, Toliara - Gives history of decision


Notes:
Westerman Benbow
Three month temporty closures during June-Aug

Benbow Harris
Note spawning females may be seeking deeper waters and avoiding fishing
