Papers:

Ruben H Roa Ureta 2022
	See if this provides more recent assessment
		This study has a wider range than the R&B paper. Goes over whole coast instead of centering in Andavadoaka
		Octopus fished are a part of a sub pop that go into deeper waters
		Does have a natural mortality estimate (M) but not for the years our data was collected (See pg 13 but ranged from 0.0127 per week to 0.0498 per week)
		Total catch in 2018 and 2019 reported but not useful
		"The fishing has been conducted mostly with sustainable exploitation rates over the period of 2015 to 2017 and it appears to be currently operating above maximum capacity." Also saying overfishing
		Management advice section: "3. Create a fourth database of biological characteristics such as sex, mantle length, and reproductive condition, by sampling a low percentage of fishing trips, to better understand the population dynamics of the stock." So they don't currently have a stage based database

OTHER BV INFORMATION
		Found a french paper looking at company collections from 1996 to 2004 - but I didn't bother to translate much of it
		Le Manach et al quantifies total cephalopod catch from 1950 - 2008 but groups all cephs together
		Rocliffe and Harris 2016 "The status of ctopus fisheries in the	Western	Indian Ocean. "Also has trends of export quantities from 1990 to 2010 in total catch but groups all octopus together
		Rocliffe and Harrris 2016 "Experiences of periodic closures in small-scale invertebrate fisheries" - "closures began in Madagascar in 2003, typically cover 25% of a community's overall octopus fishing groudns and are in place form 2-3 months at various times of year" See pg 3
		Rocliffe and Harris 2015 - Scaling success in octopus fisheries management in the Western Indian Ocean Feb 2015 - Starting in 2004, short-term octopus closures have been replicated more than 200 times. Typically close 25% of a community's octopus fishing grounds closed for 3-7 montns at various times of year, have now been established along the country's south, west and north coasts
		- "Having witnessed the effectiveness of this approach in improving octopus production, the govt of Madagascar passed new fisheries legislation in 2004 to close the fishery for 6 weeks from mid-December each year, a national management measure that continues in tandem with the more ad hoc locally led closures"
		- Dr Oliver’s analysis is considered crucial to understanding the effectiveness of both western Madagascar’s annual, regional six-week (15 December– 31 January) fishery closure and the temporary, spatially discrete (‘reserve’) closure system, since until now no empirical evidence has been available to support the perceived success of either management approach.
		- 36 periodic closures tested, lasted a range of 2-7 months
		- Goes through good summary of this paper
See: https://exeter.academia.edu/SteveRocliffe for more BV stuff

		Raberinary et al 2012 Octopus fishery management in SW Madagascar: has local fishing closures at 2.5 months while the national is 1.5 months (might be what reviewer 1 is talking about). This also has a graphic implying that fisherman salary does go down during scarcity of octopus but no info on changes of pricing based on scarcity https://blueventures.org/publications/octopus-fishery-management-in-southwest-madagascar/
		Gough et al 2020 - classifies catch by method. groups all octoups together.


Van Nieuwenhove 2019 
	Larval dispersal?
	"Because connectivity relies on dispersal of pelagic larvae, patterns are likely to be influenced by sea surface currents, moving larvae in aspecific direction." 
	Shows that currents in the M. Channel are cyclic, not directional, but specifies that this is during a monsoon. SEE SOURCES IF EDDIES STAY THROUGHOUT YEAR
	These eddies could potentially be acting as genetic barriers (but that was in the vulgaris discussion)
	Restricted gene flow in and out of SW Madagascar: Andavadoaka, Salary, Maromena, Beheloke, and Besambay
	"Differentiation between southwestern sites and other localities may therefore be due to trapping, isolation and retention of the larvae inside southward propagating eddies."
	"A similar pattern was found for the skunk clownfish, Amphiprion akallopisos, for which the population from Sm was significantly differentiated from the other WIO populations [68]"
	O. Cyanea don't move very much: "Even though no records are available of the average distance between old and new dens for O. cyanea, itisknown for other octopus species that this distance isaround 15 m [74]. Ifthese distances would also apply for O. cyanea then the species appears to be relatively resident and migration of adult O. cyanea is negligible. However, research needs to be done to confirm this hypothesis."

Papers confirming these currents:
	Schott FA, McCreary JP. The monsoon circulationofthe Indian Ocean. Prog. Oceanogr. 2001; 51: 1123. - Eddies during monsoon season. No strong throughflow in M. Channel detected
	Hancke L,Roberts MJ, Ternon JF. Surface drifter trajectories highlight flow pathwaysinthe Mozambique Channel. Deep Res Part IITop Stud Oceanogr. 2014; 100: 27–37. - Found no seasonality in currents in M. Channel. Also saw eddies in certain parts. A little bit of southward flow
	LutjeharmsJRE, Biastoch A, Van Der Werf PM, Ridderinkhof H, De Ruijter WPM. On the discontinuous nature ofthe mozambique current. SAfr JSci. 2012; 108. - 	Also saw eddies in certain parts. A little bit of southward flow but largely negligable
	

Zeller et al 2021 
	May have fisher income convo
	Effort vs CPUE - Effort increaed 60 times from 1950 to 2016 while CPUE declined by 91%. But no info on income and groups all fishing activity together


Hilborn and Mangel (The Ecological Detective) - need to find
	Difference between mechanistic and phenomenological models
	"A statistical model foregoes any attempt to explain why the variables interact the way they do, and simply attempts to describe the relationship, with the assumption that the relationship extends past the measured values. Regression models are the standard form of such descriptions, and Peters (1991) argued that the only predictive models in ecology should be statistical ones; we consider this an overly narrow viewpoint."
	Mechanistic  - Variables are hypothesized and describe biological processes
	Phenomenological - Attempts to explain data using linear estimations of different variables. Variables are estimated to describe the data.
	

Nowlis 2000
	See if they're really saying "Size limits have been shown to be the most effective method of conservation for cephalopods in general as it ensures individuals will breed before being harvested" and then rephrase
	Minimum size limits shown to be most effective in long term sustainable yield than with reserves in species that are harvested before maturity (like octopus) - but mentions that this does not work if those harvested too small are thrown back dead (also like octopus)
	

Emery, Hartmann, and Gardner 2016
	See if they're really saying "Size limits have been shown to be the most effective method of conservation for cephalopods in general as it ensures individuals will breed before being harvested" and then rephrase
	Even though minimum size limits are a commonly used strategy in octopus conservation globally, not very effective and that an overall cap on total effort (like limiting numbers of fishers or fishing season) could be more effective
	Uses "effort rotation" as potential soltion
	Rotating closures have bben shown to be effective, but presents the issue of demarcating those lines in the fishery


Benbow and harris 2011
	Look for three month closure
	"Results also confirm fisheries benefits from western Madagascar’s six-week regional fishery closure (15 December – 31 January). This legislation was created following the 2005 octopus fishery workshop."
	"The key recommendation from this group was the removal of the minimum size and the implementation of a second closed season during the austral winter, from July to August."
	"Analyses of the effect of duration, season and repetition of closures (repeated closure of one site) showed that: a. a closure period of 2-3 months appears to maximise fishing yield (CPUE) b. all seasons of closure show benefits, however winter shows stronger benefits c. there is no noticeable negative impact (on either landings or yield) of repeated closures; indeed evidence suggests repeated closures may in fact improve reserve yield."
	"Participants also proposed shortening the current regional closure from six weeks (15 December – 31 January) to four weeks (15 December – 15 January) and adding a second subsequent four week national closure in the austral winter (July-August)."
	"It was noted that the current minimum catch size limit for octopus (350 g) is poorly enforced and hard for collectors to comply with. One suggestion was to discontinue the use of the minimum size limit and instead implement a second regional closure period over the austral winter months."


Westerman and benbow 2014
	Look for three month closure
	"Further research has demonstrated that only three months of closure are needed to achieve such benefits and are much more socially acceptable to fishing communities (Benbow & Harris, 2011) and, today, most coastal villages with access to suitable reef flats within Velondriake routinely implement annual temporary closures during the austral winter months (June-August)."
	"Results also show that village revenue does not decline during closure periods, and that the majority of closures increased profit by nearly 500 USD (Purchasing Power Parity: Blue Ventures, unpublished data)"

Benbow 2014
	-Fisher income - Does more scarcity lead to higher prices? or has income decreased
	Doesn't say anything about that but fisher income was increased after closures
	-"there is a fundamental flaw in my interpretation of closure models" Should provide more insight on closure timings
	Based on data from 2004-2006
	Has good sources on when size limits were implemented and why quotas would be difficult
	"As a result of the success of the first regional closure at Ankereo (reported below), the state enacted a south-west, region-wide octopus fishery closure from 15 December 2005 until 31 January 2006 (48 days)."
	"we suggest that closures of less than four months would produce desired fisheries results." without overburdenign fishers with too long a closure


Oliver 2015
	"there is a fundamental flaw in my interpretation of closure models" Should provide more insight on closure timings
	Says periods of 3-7 month closures ideal for fast-growing cephs
	Closures result in higher village fishery income
	"Upon instituting an octopus closure, villagers typically close about one fifth of their village’s octopus harvest area (~124 ha +/- 45 CI95), for a period between 2–7 months, sometimes repeatedly"
	CHECK S2 TABLE FOR CHANGES IN PRICES
	"On average, neither implementing nor control villages experienced a consistent, significant decline in octopus income during the closure periods relative to the 30 days before"
	"Closures also showed positive net economic benefits at the site level using a conservative cost model that does not allow income from displaced effort to offset costs from foregone catch."
	"Models show that rapid growth and short lifespans allow for shorter optimal closure times [31,32,43]"
	
	

Humber 2006
	Fisher income - Does more scarcity lead to higher prices? or has income decreased
	Has octopus become the largest class of exports since globalization?
	Also on that paragraph that's confusing, Benbow 2014 also confirms that closures increase yeild but that can be offset by fishing frenzies the next day
	IN ANDAVADOAKA - octopus represent 70% of marine produce bought by collection companies
	"At present, fishermen are paid a set price per kg for octopus depending on whether they are greater or less than 1500g" But present means 2006 so who knows
	7 month closure resulted in greater abundance than 4.5 month closure
(Copefrito, pers. comm) - paper that states octopus are 70% export - personal communication so let's just cite Humber
	
Langley 2006 (cited in Humber)
	Fisher in come - Does more scarcity lead to higher prices? or has income decreased?
	"However, octopus catches are the most economically important fishery for the Andavadoaka region, providing 48% of the total catch by weight in 2004 for Copefrito, which has since increased to 71% in 2005 for the Nord IV region."
	" some of the variation in fish price paid to fishers by collectors. The price varies depending on whether the equipment belongs to the fishers, how many people fish together (in the case of net fishing) and the collector (e.g., Copefrito, Murex etc.)." No mention of scarcity
	"The first national octopus closure on the west coast of Madagascar took place between December 2005 and January 2006."
	
Grorud-Colvert et al 2021
	Find if temp closures are a type of MPA
	Doesn't have temp closures
	A Systematic Review of the Socioeconomic Factors that Influence How Marine Protected Areas Impact on Ecosystems and Livelihoods Mizrahi et al 2019 says they don't fit classical MPA definition but still include it in protection analyses
	^Same with Marine conservation beyond MPAs: Towards the recognition of other effective area-based conservation measures (OECMs) in Indonesia. Estradivari et al 2022
	But this says it is a type of MPA:https://nmsmarineprotectedareas.blob.core.windows.net/marineprotectedareas-prod/media/archive/pdf/helpful-resources/factsheets/mpa_classification_may2011.pdf
	I guess it has to do with the fact that the goals are not entirely biological - https://nmsmarineprotectedareas.blob.core.windows.net/marineprotectedareas-prod/media/docs/2020-mpa-building-effective-conservation-networks.pdf
	https://www.iucn.org/our-union/commissions/group/iucn-wcpa-other-effective-area-based-conservation-measures-specialist
	I guess we're going that route then


Aina 2009
	Has octopus become the largest class of exports since globalization?
	No. Take that out.
	"This success led to the implementation of new national fisheries regulations on octopus fishing in 2005, after consultation of all the actors in this activity (fishermen, Regional Department of Fisheries, and conservation NGOs). This regulation includes a specified minimum catch size and a regional closure season in southwest Madagascar between 15th December and 31st January each year. The text regulating the octopus fishery in octopus is not yet put into effect."
	

Barnes Mauthe 2013
	Has octopus become the largest class of exports since globalization?
	This actually says it's sea cucumber lol. Maybe check out (Harris, 2007, 2011; Epps, 2007) or just say they're a key species economically
	

